So what is Kotlin? Well you probably know
that it's a programming language and
Google announced support for Android but
let's talk a bit more about why it
exists, because after all there are
plenty of programming languages so why
do we need another one?
Well Kotlin belongs to JetBrains
and JetBrains as a company behind the
popular IntelliJ IDEA IDE in popular
Java IDE. Now if you haven't used
IntelliJ, we'll be using it in this
course, so you'll get a chance to work
with it. Now because of what JetBrains
does, it not only sees a lot of Java code
but it has a huge Java code base of its
own and so it was familiar with some of
the challenges of writing and
maintaining a large Java code base. So at
some point it decided to create its own
language that would be completely
interoperable with Java and that would
perhaps get around or overcome some of
the challenges of working with a large
code base written in Java and the
language that it designed and
implemented is Kotlin. Now since then
Kotlin has moved beyond the original
vision, you can compile Kotlin code to
run on the JVM but you can also compile
it to run on JavaScript VMs and on top
of that, at the time that I'm writing and
recording this course, there's a native
preview available, so that means that in
the future it might be possible for you
to compile Kotlin code to machine code
and then of course, you won't need the
JVM at all, but what's great about Kotlin
is that if you are a Java developer,
you can still use Java from Kotlin, so you
can ease yourself into the Kotlin world,
you don't have to make a radical switch
from Java to Kotlin, you can start out by
writing a single Kotlin class and adding
that to an existing Java application.
So in this course, we're going to focus on
writing Kotlin applications that will
run on the JVM and we're also going to
use your existing Java knowledge to
introduce you to Kotlin and what you can
do with it. Now Kotlin is pronounced the
way I've been pronouncing it Kotlin,
it's named after an island in Russia because
the Kotlin team is located in Russia.
So let's talk a little more about Kotlin,
as I mentioned it can run anywhere Java
can run, because it runs on the JVM,
so therefore it can run anywhere that the
JVM can run, it's statically typed,
so what I mean by this is that the type of
every expression is determined at
compile time, so the compiler will know
the type of every expression, it will
know the type of every variable,
it doesn't figure out the types at runtime,
they're all figured out at compile time
it's object oriented, but Kotlin also
uses functional programming. Now if
you're not familiar with functional
programming, this means that you can use
functions as values, meaning you can
store them in variables, you can return
them from functions and pass them as
arguments to functions. Also you can
declare immutable objects, meaning
instances that you can't change.
Now functional programming allows Kotlin to
be concise and you're going to see this
over and over again as you go through
the course, most of the time you'll have
to write less Kotlin code to accomplish
something then you'd have to write in Java.
Okay so Kotlin has four guiding
principles. The first guiding principle
is conciseness, I just mentioned that and
you're going to see that as we go
through the course and you're going to
be amazed sometimes at how little code
you have to write compared to what you
have to write in Java. Kotlin is also
focused on safety, you'll you'll see that
Kotlin goes to great lengths to protect
against null pointer exceptions. Now you
might have heard that you can't get a
null pointer exception in Kotlin that's
not true, but it's pretty hard to get one.
You practically have to beg for one,
it's pragmatics now what do I mean by that?
It's not a research language, Kotlin is
designed to solve actual problems in the
real world. And also as you're going to
see there's often more than one way to
do something in Kotlin, all as we go
through the course you'll see me
sometimes saying you can write it like
this, so you can write it like that and
in the Kotlin world, no way is considered
better than the other, so you don't have
any arguments along the lines of should
you have a curly brace on the same line
or on a different line as we know
you know among some circles those types
of arguments are practically religious
arguments, there's none of that in Kotlin.
If you want to be verbose with your code,
so it's more like Java, you can do that.
If you want to be really concise, you can
do that. If there are three ways to write
the same thing, it doesn't matter which
way you write it most of the time
depending on the situation one might be
a little more efficient than the other,
but most of the time it doesn't matter.
Now there are of course some best and
recommended practices, but when there's
more than one way to accomplish
something, usually you can do it in the
manner you prefer. Now you'll see that
when you first start working with Kotlin,
You'll write more verbose Java like code,
you might keep doing that or as you get
more familiar with Kotlin, you might
write more idiomatic Kotlin code,
the fourth guiding principle is
interoperability, I've already mentioned
this, Kotlin was designed from the ground
up to be interoperable with Java, so it's
really the best of both worlds for Java
developers like us, it's a great language
to learn because we still have the full
power of the JDK at our disposal, we can
use all of our existing knowledge.
Okay, so I've talked enough about the language,
it's time to see it in action, so we're
going to start by you watching me
convert a java application to Kotlin,
to give you a taste of the language and to
see a couple of the guiding principles
in action. I'll see you in the next video.